---
layout: post
title: "Two Hawks"
date: "2022-03-10"
categories: thoughts fable
published: true
---
A HAWK stands on a branch. His joints tremble with hunger. A splash of black in his right peripheral. A crow. He jumps at the crow. It dashes away. A scuffling. A squirrel claws at the bark. The hawk snaps his gaze. With haste he jumps. The squirrel clenches tightly to the trunk of the tree. In a millisecond the hawk is on her. Just as quick she sinks her teeth in. Sharp and cold like a bear trap they snap and the hawk loses a toe. He drifts away into the sharp autumn morning. He escaped with his life but kept his hunger.

2000 miles away, another hawk slowly drapes his gaze over the landscape as he turns his head from a carefully chosen vantage point near the crest of the bluff. His attention cuts through the colorful leaves darting stochastically in the wind. The brush shivers. A mouse. Too small. An abandoned osprey perch intercepts his view with its flat platform. Curiosity bubbles into reasoning as the hawk evaluates its relevance to his quest for a meal:
1. To get food he needs to find food.
2. From his current position on the bluff his view is obstructed 180 degrees, whereas the osprey perch admits 360 degrees of panoramic clarity.
3. What he really wants is a jackrabbit, which is better approached from a low, flat angle. He’ll need to attack from a point lower than the bluff if he expects to succeed. The perch is lower than the bluff, so it’s better for catching jackrabbits.
4. He learned the basics of pursuit from his mother, and the basics of pursuit dictate that diving in an updraft drastically reduces attack speed. The bluff causes an updraft that he wants to avoid, whereas the osprey perch stands in still air above the center of the marsh.
5. Jackrabbits are a delicate prize that won’t be had without getting everything right—to catch one, he’ll have to capture many advantages in every dimension of the hunt.

The decision is clear and the hawk sets off for the perch to continue his waiting. He arrives and he waits.

There—a rabbit in the distance. A cottontail next to its burrow, i.e. an escape hatch granting the rabbit immunity from his grasp. Though his joints tremble with hunger, the hawk waits without tiring. It’s nearly noon but he waits. A brown spot catches his eye. A jackrabbit napping in the late morning sun. Breakfast. Without hesitation he jumps, sets his wings, and shoots toward the jack. He feasts.

Success is obtained through patient attention.